>> Brian Holt: Okay, so next step,
should we build the next step?
Sounds kind of fun, right?
Let's do it.
All right, so you can copy and
paste this, that's what I'm gonna do.
I'm gonna build a new one here and
we're gonna call this one mkdir next,
cd next and then I'm gonna run
npx create-next-app@15.1.7.
We're doing js today,
I'm sure some of you are wondering
why I'm not doing this in TypeScript.
I'm just trying to remove barriers
from you and learning React.
I love TypeScript.
I technically was part of the TypeScript
team when I was at Microsoft,
cuz that VS code team, TypeScript
team is kind of all the same team.
So I love it, but I just want you to
have the most access to the information
possible, and I don't want TypeScript
to get in the way of that.
We're doing the app router,
we're gonna do a source directory, and
we're gonna use turbopack, which is like
the rust powered version of webpack.
And probably oversimplifying that, but
it's the Vercel official build product for
Next.js.
Okay, what do you wanna call it?
My-super-cool-note-app.
Do you want to use ESLint?
Sure, yes, no, I don't know, no.
We're not doing Tailwind today,
I'm not gonna do the import alias,
you could if you want to.
>> Brian Holt: And
we should get a whole app, all right.
>> Brian Holt: So, yeah,
there we go, code..
>> Brian Holt: Maybe, okay,
cd my-super-cool-notes-app.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so couple more things
to install here, we need our doodle.css,
npm install.
Doodle.css@0.0.2,
promised-sqlite3@2.1.0 and
sqlite3@5.1.7.
>> Brian Holt: Again, feel free to copy
and paste those directly on my notes.
>> Brian Holt: Do I care about any those?
Nope, sure don't care.
No one cares about warnings.
And then I'm gonna copy that same notes.db
file that we had in our other project.
Okay, so same file we're gonna
work with the exact same notes.db.
Yeah, it looks like I put
a seed file there as well.
I thought some of you might wanna
use Postgres or something like that,
feel free to.
>> Brian Holt: There's also a very good
Postgres course on Frontend Masters.
Again, taught by just
a stunningly handsome young man.
[LAUGH] I don't know why, when I'm
speaking of myself in the third person,
I have to be steadily handsome.
Aspirational, I guess, vanity, who knows?
No one can know.
Okay, so let's get going on this.
This is a Next.js project,
there's a config file here.
We don't have anything in it,
that's totally fine.
Jsconfig, this is for
Typescript reading and
Javascript project,
that's what that's for.
There's a bunch of stuff in here,
you can leave it in here if you want to,
that's totally fine with me.
And then we're gonna go to source/page.js,
so this is the app router,
and there's a page router,
which is different.
Not talking at all about the page router
today, this is just the app router today.
Just two different ways of creating routes
in Next.js is essentially what it is.
I have my /directory, and
in that /directory I have the page, and
that's going to be the page that's
rendered whenever that is it.
So if I make, I don't know, just a blah,
right, and I put a page.js in blah,
then whenever I go to /blah,
it'll render the page inside of that.
I also have a layout and
anything that's a child of that will
be rendered inside of that layout.
So you'll notice here that it has
children, the page is going to be
rendered inside of the children there
as well, so that's what layout is.
And this is what I was talking about,
I'm pretty sure this would qualify
as static site generation.
So this part of it's actually generated
beforehand, totally on the server,
and then that's filled with the page.js
is like a child component or
a child React app, essentially.
Okay, not that you ever really have
to care about that they don't make
the distinction for you, so
you don't have to make the distinction.
Okay, so page.js delete all that,
just total nonsense.
Just kidding, I'm sure it's fine,
but I don't care.
Import Link from "next/link";.
>> Brian Holt: And then we're
just gonna make a homepage here,
of all the essentially lessons that
you and I are gonna do together.
default function Home(), return and
then just a pretty basic
little ul here unordered list.
>> Brian Holt: li and then we're just
gonna do a Link and href = My Notes.
So links here are basically like a tags,
right?
Anchor tags for Next.js apps and
we're just gonna make four of these,
so you might as well just copy and
paste like me.
And My Notes is going to be going
to /my the next one here is
going to be going to write, so
we're gonna do Write a Note.
>> Brian Holt: And
then we're gonna do /teacher,
which is gonna be the super
Secret Teacher Feed.
And then the last one is for
all my existential friends out there,
we're gonna do a "who-am-i" route.
We're gonna peer into our own souls and
wonder who we are.
>> Brian Holt: You don't need the
explanation point and question might but
it felt appropriate, so I put it there.
Okay, let's go ahead and
go into to layout.js now.
Delete that and import
Link from "next/link".
Import "doodle.css/doodle.css" and
import "./global.css", which reminds me,
let's go ahead and go grab that.
I have it here, where do I have it?
Looks like I forgot to put it in there,
that's something to fix their destined.
Github/btholt/Irv6-project, and
let's just grab it from completed here,
cuz I know this one works.
Next.js src/app, this globals.css,
that's really the one
that I care about here.
Raw, copy and paste and
then we're gonna come back over here and
not this one, nobody likes that one
anymore, we're done with that one.
>> Brian Holt: Here we're
going to put in globals.css,
we're just gonna replace all of that
with much superior css that I wrote.
Much better than the people of Vercel, and
you can delete the page.modules at css,
cuz we don't need that one anymore.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then we're
going back to layout.js,
export const metadata = title:.
"Note Passer", this is all the stuff
that's gonna be put into the head,
essentially, right?
If you've ever used React helmet,
this produce that as well.
React 19 now has better ways of putting
stuff into the head implicitly.
If you render a link,
it knows that that never goes in the body,
so it can put stuff in the head for
you, so it's pretty neat.
description: "Example app for
Frontend Masters", and
then export default async
function RootLayout.
It's gonna take in children,
and we're just gonna
return html lang="en".
body className, we need the doodle one,
so that the css shows up, and
then nav, h1, we'll have a Link.
>> Brian Holt: href="/",
we'll call this Note Passer and
then under nav, we're gonna have children.
Pretty simple so far, root layout here.
So again,
layout will be the most outer one and
then inside of layout will have page.js.
These are significant names to Next.js,
right?
Next.js is going to be looking for
these specific file names,
which is how everything gets put together.
I don't like this pattern to be super
frank, cuz I could see a new developer
coming into this code base being like,
why is this put together, right?
How is layout and page linked together?
There's no explicit way that those are,
you just have to know that
Next.js does that for you.
When I learned Rails for the first time,
when I was a much younger developer and
Rails was super hot,
I'm dating myself again.
That was hard for me,
that was really hard for
me because I didn't understand
how things got built.
But here we are, more than a decade later.
>> Speaker 2: Do you have to name
the components root layout and
home as well as that also [INAUDIBLE]?
>> Brian Holt: No, that's just for
what I was talking about before which is
the debug ability of it all,
you could totally leave this out.
It does have to be the default, that's
important that it has to be the default.
Export and the metadata that has to be
called metadata, the variable names,
the exports matter, but this is just for
making it more readable.
It's good question, though.
Okay, this should run.
Probably runs, I don't know, YOLO, YOLO.
We're gonna do npm, is it just dev?
Lucky guess and
I'm gonna open ths up in 3000.
Globals.css, let's go find that.
>> Speaker 3: Can you call
it global in the import?
>> Brian Holt: Like a noob, right?
Here we go, okay.
So there we go.
Note Passer,
we can always click to go here.
None of these are gonna work, right?
So you're gonna get 404s
on each one of these.
But now we have a place for all
the components that we're about to build.
>> Brian Holt: But
hopefully you're already seeing,
Next.js is a pretty productive framework,
right?
We didn't have to do a whole lot, and
this just kinda worked pretty quickly.
Static route, neat,
I had not seen that before.
>> Brian Holt: Anyway.
>> Speaker 4: Is that just the next thing?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so it'll forward
server failures onto your client so
you see them right away.
There's a lot of good thinking going,
it's their core business hosting
next apps is their core business.
And so they need everyone to use Next.js,
and then they need to be the best place to
host Next.js, so that you use for sale.
It's great business,
to be honest to you, it works for me.
I know exactly what's happening to me,
but I'm still gonna do it.
By the way,
I like server component, right?
You didn't even know you're writing
one and these are server components.
So take that for
what you will, it is very cool.